# time_series_reconstruction

This project deals with stock market time series and focuses on reconstructing and completing company stock price trajectories based on index data using neural networks. The goal is to accurately fill in missing or noisy parts of a company’s price series by leveraging information from the broader market index, improving analysis and prediction in financial applications.

## Environment Setup

You can set up the required environment in two ways:

### 1. Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended)

#### On macOS/Linux:

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### On Windows (PowerShell):

```powershell
python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Alternatively, install required packages globally

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Required packages example

The main dependencies are:
- pandas
- pyyaml
- torch
- fastapi
- uvicorn

All packages are listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

---

## Running the API

To start the FastAPI server locally, run:

```bash
uvicorn app:app --reload
```

- `app` is the Python module filename (app.py)
- `app` is the FastAPI instance inside that file
- `--reload` enables auto-reload on code changes (development only)

If port 8000 is busy, you can specify another port:

```bash
uvicorn app:app --reload --port 8001
```

## Example API Usage

To use the `predict` endpoint, send a POST request with a JSON body containing the input time series data. JSON contains:

- `index_ts_low_high_norm`: array of 60 floats or nulls
- `corr_30`: float or null
- `corr_60`: float or null
- `open_pos`: float or null
- `close_pos`: float or null
- `body_to_range`: float or null
- `direction`: float or int or null
- `index_open_pos`: float or null
- `index_close_pos`: float or null
- `index_body_to_range`: float or null
- `index_direction`: float or int or null
- `ts_low_high_norm`: array of 60 floats or nulls

This request sends a time series array and optional parameters to the API, which returns the reconstructed or predicted time series data. A detailed example JSON payload is available in the `example.json` file.

You can also test the API interactively in your browser using FastAPI's automatic documentation at the `/docs` endpoint.

1. Run the API server locally, e.g.:
```bash
uvicorn app:app --reload --port 8000
```
2. Open your web browser and go to:
```bash
http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs
```
3. Find the `POST /predict` endpoint in the list and click on it to expand the details.

4. Click the `Try it out` button.

5. In the JSON input box that appears, paste your JSON payload (example available in `example.json` file)

6. Click `Execute`.

You will see the response from the API below, showing the prediction output.

## Running Experiments

The sample synthetic dataset located at `data/sample/dataset.parquet` was generated by running:

```bash
python scripts/create_synthetic_dataset.py
```
To run the evaluation and generate heatmaps for MSE, MAE, and R² depending on the completeness of time series, run the following command:

```bash
python experiments/evaluation/compute_metrics.py
```

Similarly, to generate plots that illustrate how the model works, run:

```bash
python experiments/plot/plot_samples.py
```

All configuration files are located in config/config_experiment.yaml.